Title: Mortgage Interest Rates Today, November 25, 2023 | Rates Inched Down Again This Week

Content: Our experts answer readers' home-buying questions and write unbiased product reviews (here's how we assess mortgages). In some cases, we receive a commission from our partners; however, our opinions are our own.

Interest rates for the most popular 30-year fixed mortgage averaged around 7.11% in the month of November, according to Zillow data. Rates for 15-year mortgages, which are also relatively popular, were 6.45%. The average monthly mortgage payment is currently $2,823 for a 30-year fixed mortgage.

Mortgage interest rates are always changing, and there are a lot of factors that can sway your interest rate. While some of them are personal factors you have control over, and some aren't, it's important to know what your interest rate could look like as you start the process of getting a home loan.

Average mortgage rates today

While average mortgage and refinance rates can give you an idea of where rates are currently at, remember that they're never a guarantee of the rate a lender will offer you. Mortgage interest rates vary by borrower, based on factors like your credit, loan type, and down payment. To get the best rate for you, you'll want to get quotes from multiple lenders.

Mortgage type Average rate today This information has been provided by Zillow. See more mortgage rates on Zillow Real Estate on Zillow

Average mortgage interest rate by mortgage type

First mortgage

There are several types of first mortgages available. They generally differ by the loan's length in years, and whether the interest rate is fixed or adjustable. Two of the most popular types include:

30-year mortgage rates: The most popular type of mortgage, this home loan makes for low monthly payments by spreading the amount over 30 years.

The most popular type of mortgage, this home loan makes for low monthly payments by spreading the amount over 30 years. 15-year mortgage rates: Interest rates and payments won't change on this type of loan, but it has higher monthly payments since payments are spread over 15 years.

Mortgage refinance

Mortgage refinance rates typically differ somewhat from purchase rates, and may be slightly higher. If you're considering a refinance, be sure to shop around with the best mortgage refinance lenders and get multiple rate quotes to be sure you're getting the best deal.

30-year mortgage refinance rates: Refinancing into a 30-year term can lower your monthly payment since you're spreading out what you owe over a longer period of time.

Refinancing into a 30-year term can lower your monthly payment since you're spreading out what you owe over a longer period of time. 15-year mortgage refinance rates: Refinancing into a shorter term like a 15-year mortgage will increase your monthly payment, but help you save on interest.

Home equity line of credit (HELOC)

HELOC rates are generally a little higher than rates on first mortgages, but they can still be worth it if you're looking to tap into your home's equity without having to take on a new rate on your main mortgage. As with other types of mortgages, you'll want to shop around and get multiple rate quotes to find the best HELOC lenders.

Average mortgage interest rate by credit score

National rates aren't the only thing that can sway your mortgage interest rates — personal information like your credit history also can affect the price you'll pay to borrow.

See Insider's picks for the best mortgage lenders »

Your credit score is a number calculated based on your borrowing, credit use, and repayment history, and the score you receive between 300 and 850 acts like a grade point average for how you use credit. You can check your credit score online for free. The higher your score is, the less you'll pay to borrow money. Generally, 620 is the minimum credit score needed to buy a house, with some exceptions for government-backed loans.

Data from credit scoring company FICO shows that the lower your credit score, the more you'll pay for credit. Here's the average interest rate by credit level for a 30-year fixed-rate mortgage of $300,000:

FICO Score National average mortgage APR 620 to 639 8.314% 640 to 659 7.768% 660 to 679 7.338% 680 to 699 7.124% 700 to 759 6.947% 760 to 850 6.725%

According to FICO, only people with credit scores above 660 will truly see interest rates around the national average.

Average mortgage interest rate by year

Mortgage rates are constantly in flux, largely affected by what's happening in the greater economy. Things like inflation, the bond market, overall housing market conditions, and Federal Reserve policy impact mortgage rates.

Here's how the average mortgage interest rate has changed over time, according to data from Freddie Mac.

Year Average 30-year fixed mortgage rate (January) 2000 8.15% 2001 7.07% 2002 7.14% 2003 5.85% 2004 5.87% 2005 5.77% 2006 6.15% 2007 6.18% 2008 6.07% 2009 6.01% 2010 5.09% 2011 4.77% 2012 3.87% 2013 3.34% 2014 4.53% 2015 3.73% 2016 3.97% 2017 4.20% 2018 3.95% 2019 4.51% 2020 3.72% 2021 2.65% 2022 3.22% 2023 6.48%

Throughout 2020, the average mortgage rate fell drastically due to the economic impact of the coronavirus crisis. Rates throughout 2020 and into 2021 were lower than rates at the depths of the Great Recession. Thirty-year fixed mortgage interest rates hit a low of 2.65% in January 2021, according to Freddie Mac. Rates began to rise again in 2022.

Most major forecasts expect rates to start dropping again toward the end of 2023 and throughout the next couple of years.

Average mortgage interest rate by state

Check the latest rates in your state at the links below.

Alabama

Alaska

Arizona

Arkansas

California

Colorado

Connecticut

Delaware

Florida

Georgia

Hawaii

Idaho

Illinois

Indiana

Iowa

Kansas

Kentucky

Louisiana

Maine

Maryland

Massachusetts

Michigan

Minnesota

Mississippi

Missouri

Montana

Nebraska

Nevada

New Hampshire

New Jersey

New Mexico

New York

North Carolina

North Dakota

Ohio

Oklahoma

Oregon

Pennsylvania

Rhode Island

South Carolina

South Dakota

Tennessee

Texas

Utah

Vermont

Virginia

Washington

Washington, DC

West Virginia

Wisconsin

Wyoming

How are mortgage rates determined?

Multiple factors affect the interest rate you'll pay on a mortgage. Some are outside of your control. Others you can influence.

For instance, the federal funds rate — the interest rate banks charge when they lend to each other — has an influence on all sorts of other interest rates, including those on mortgages. The Federal Reserve adjusts the federal funds rate as part of its effort to control inflation. Therefore, it's a factor that is beyond your control.

Key determining factors that you do have control over include:

Your credit score Debt-to-income ratio The amount of your down payment The type of mortgage you get The amount of time you take to pay off the loan

What to know before getting a mortgage

A mortgage is a type of secured loan used to purchase a home. You pay back the lender over an agreed-upon amount of time, including an additional interest payment, which you can consider the price of borrowing money. (You can also pay off your mortgage early, but there are both pros and cons to be aware of.)

Because a mortgage is a secured loan, it means you put your property up as collateral. Should you fail to make your payments over time, the lender can foreclose on, or repossess, your property. Learn more about how a mortgage works here.

Frequently asked questions about average mortgage rates

What is a mortgage rate? Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options. A mortgage rate, also known as a mortgage interest rate, is the fee charged by your lender for loaning you money. Your principal (payments on the amount of money you borrowed) and interest are rolled into one payment each month.

Is a 6% mortgage rate high? Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options. Compared to where rates were just a couple of years ago, a 6% mortgage rate is extremely high. But now, with rates in the 6% to 7% range, a 6% mortgage rate would probably be considered pretty good for most borrowers.

Are 8% mortgage rates coming? Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options. Average mortgage rates nearly reached 8% in October this year, but they've since come down. However, rates can vary a lot depending on your finances. If you have a lower credit score, you may get a rate that's around 8%.

When was the last time mortgage rates were at 8%? Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options. The last time mortgage rates were at 8% was in August 2000, when the average 30-year mortgage rate was 8.04%, according to Freddie Mac.

What credit score gets you the best mortgage rate? Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options. The better your credit score, the better the rate you'll get on your mortgage. To access the best mortgage interest rates, aim to have a credit score at least in the 700s.

What is a good mortgage interest rate? Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options. In general, you can consider a good mortgage rate to be the average rate in your state or below. This will vary depending on your credit score — better scores tend to get better mortgage rates. Overall, a good mortgage rate will vary from person to person, depending on their financial situation.

What is a discount point? Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options. A discount point is a fee you can choose to pay at closing for a lower interest rate on your mortgage. One discount point usually costs 1% of your mortgage, and it reduces your rate by 0.25%. So if your rate on a $200,000 mortgage is 6.5% and you pay $4,000 for two discount points, your new interest rate is 6%.

How do I compare current mortgage rates? Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options. Because mortgage interest rates are so individual to the borrower, the best way to find the rates available to you is to get quotes from multiple lenders. If you're early in the homebuying process, apply for prequalification and/or preapproval with several lenders to compare and contrast what they're offering.

Will mortgage rates go down? Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options. Mortgage interest rates are expected to fall soon, but when and how much depends on the path of inflation; if price growth continues to slow, rates should fall in the coming months. If inflation remains stubborn, we may have to wait a bit longer. But that doesn't mean you need to put off your homebuying plans — there are plenty of advantages to buying a house when rates are high, such as decreased competition.
