Title: A nurse with a full-time job and two kids made a tearful TikTok video about living paycheck to paycheck

Content: A full-time nurse in Pennsylvania said she's struggling to live paycheck to paycheck.

She explained on TikTok that she and her partner don't have enough money to get by.

The cost of living in the US has shot up in recent years eroding consumers' buying power.

NEW LOOK Sign up to get the inside scoop on today’s biggest stories in markets, tech, and business — delivered daily. Read preview Loading Something is loading. Thanks for signing up! Access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go. download the app Email address Sign up By clicking “Sign Up”, you accept our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . You can opt-out at any time.

Advertisement

A nurse from Pennsylvania shared her financial struggles as a full-time working parent and broke down as she explained that she is living paycheck to paycheck despite earning good wages, in a viral TikTok video .

Mackenzie Moan, who goes by the handle @mackmoan1988 on TikTok, said she's a registered nurse and a full-time student with two children.

"I feel like my husband and I are doing everything right. We both have good jobs, I'm a nurse ... I work full-time, he works full-time," Moan said in the TikTok video while sobbing. The video was uploaded on November 14 and has amassed over 1.5 million views.

She explained that four days after she and her husband received their paychecks and had paid their bills, they were left with around $200 to $300 to spend over 10 days.

Advertisement

Moan emphasized that they live in a modest house with three bedrooms and a bathroom, and that both she and her partner make "good money" and "don't live above our means."

"If our furnace were to go out right now, we couldn't fix it. If our single car were to break down, we would have no transportation. These are the types of threats that middle-class America is dealing with," Moan later said in an email to Business Insider.

"I don't think that the people who hold positions of power in our government are feeling the strain that a large part of our country feels," she added.

TikTok users are rallying in support of Moan and sharing similar struggles with one comment saying: "I promise it's not just you. It's all of America."

Advertisement

Another user wrote: "I make 6 figures and am STILL paycheck to paycheck! … I don't live beyond my means either. It is so depressing!"

Moan's video reflects the struggle of many US workers.

Although wages finally caught up with inflation in May this year, the gap between buying power and inflation remains.

"Households are seeing their finances stretched thinly by the combination of high prices for goods and services as well as high interest rates," Brett House, an economics professor at Columbia Business School, previously told CNBC.

Advertisement

"Many are having to make tough choices to defer discretionary spending in order to stay on top of their loan payments and the costs of necessities," he said.
