Title: Finances are keeping some Gen Z and millennials up at night, survey finds

Content: Gen Z and millennials are losing more sleep over their finances than older generations, a survey found.

The big difference is how stressed they are about housing, according to Empower.

Less than half of Gen X and baby boomers said rising rent or home prices contributed to financial stress.

NEW LOOK Sign up to get the inside scoop on today’s biggest stories in markets, tech, and business — delivered daily. Read preview Loading Something is loading. Thanks for signing up! Access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go. download the app Email address Sign up By clicking “Sign Up”, you accept our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . You can opt-out at any time.

Advertisement

Gen Z and millennials are losing more sleep over their finances than older generations, according to a new survey.

Some 56% of Gen Z and 51% of millennial respondents to a survey by financial services company Empower published this week said their finances were keeping them up at night. That compares with just 37% of Gen X and 20% of baby boomers surveyed who said the same.

The survey was conducted in August and took responses from 2,000 Americans aged 18 and over.

It found a striking generational divide when it came to the main cause of financial stress: Gen Z and millennial respondents are way more stressed about housing.

Advertisement

Two thirds (67%) of Gen Z and millennial respondents said higher home prices and mortgage rates contributed to their financial stress, compared with just under half of Gen X and baby boomer respondents.

Meanwhile, 62% of Gen Z and millennial respondents said rising contributed to their financial stress, while only 38% of older respondents said the same.

The only issues that caused more financial stress to Gen X and baby boomer respondents were politics, inflation, and the rising cost of goods and services.

Home ownership has long been more elusive for millennials and Gen Z. The rate stood at 65.8% in 2022, according to census data. But just 39% of adults aged under 39 owned a property.

Advertisement

A survey of more 5,000 people conducted by real estate company Redfin in May and June found that about a third of Gen Z and millennial respondents thought mortgage rates were too high to let them buy.

Nearly one in five millennials and just over 10% of Gen Zeds said they believe they will never own a home.
