Title: US stocks climb ahead of Thanksgiving as investors weigh lower oil prices and jobless claims

Content: US stocks climbed on Wednesday as Wall Street headed into the Thanksgiving holiday break.

Oil prices and weekly jobless claims dropped, and shares of Nvidia after it reported earnings.

Bond yields edged up after a consumer survey showed higher inflation expectations.

NEW LOOK Sign up to get the inside scoop on today’s biggest stories in markets, tech, and business — delivered daily. Read preview Loading Something is loading. Thanks for signing up! Access your favorite topics in a personalized feed while you're on the go. download the app Email address Sign up By clicking “Sign Up”, you accept our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy . You can opt-out at any time.

Advertisement

US stocks climbed on Wednesday as Wall Street eyed the Thanksgiving holiday break amid fresh economic and earnings reports.

Weekly jobless claims dropped by 24,000 compared to the prior week to 209,000. Meanwhile, the final reading of University of Michigan consumer sentiment survey showed that year-ahead expectations for inflation ticked up to 4.5% from a prior reading of 4.4%.

Bond yields ticked slightly higher after declining earlier in the day as the data could put more pressure on the Fed to keep rates higher for longer.

The slightly hotter view on inflation comes despite the recent drop in oil prices, which continued to fall Wednesday after OPEC+ pushed back its meeting to November 30 amid reports of discord among member countries.

Advertisement

Fresh earnings reports rolled in, led by mega-cap tech giant Nvidia. Late Tuesday, the AI chipmaker reported strong third-quarter results that saw revenue triple. But shares turned lower after edging higher in early trading.

After closing on Thursday, markets will reopen on Friday for a shortened trading session.

Here's where US indexes stood at the 4:00 p.m. ET closing bell on Wednesday:

Advertisement

Here's what else happened today:

In commodities, bonds and crypto:
